>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN
IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS ON ASSIGNMENT.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT:
COMMANDING THE SPOTLIGHT.
REPUBLICANS PREPARE TO STAND OUT
AND NARROW THE FIELD IN THE
FIRST PRIMARY DEBATE.
ON THE 50th ANNIVERSARY OF THE
SIGNING OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT, WHERE DOES IT STAND TODAY?
PLUS, PRODUCE AND STOCKED
SHELVES IN WHAT WAS ONCE A FOOD
DESERT.
HOW TO BUILD GROCERY STORES IN
UNDERSERVED NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> I THINK WE SHOULD HAVE ABOUT
A THOUSAND CIVIL MARKETS.
THERE IS 25 MILLION PEOPLE THAT
LIVE WITHOUT A GROCERY STORE
TODAY THAT DON'T HAVE A
PRACTICAL MEANS TO GET ONE.
>> Ifill: AND...
>> I AGREE WITH YOU, JON.
WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO SHOOT
PEOPLE.
NO!
>> Ifill: JON STEWART SAYS
FAREWELL TO THE DAILY SHOW, THE
END OF AN ERA OF COMEDIC
COMMENTARY ON THE NEWS.
>> JON STEWART'S ULTIMATE ENEMY
IS HYPOCRISY AND PHONINESS.
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: IT'S DEBATE NIGHT FOR
THE REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
FIELD, AND THE HOPEFULS SPENT
TODAY GETTING READY.
IN ALL, TEN G.O.P. CANDIDATES
MADE THE CUT FOR THE FOX NEWS
FACE-OFF.
IT TAKES PLACE IN CLEVELAND, AT
9:00 EASTERN TIME.
THE SEVEN OTHER CANDIDATES MET
LAHI
VENUE, IN A KIND OF UNDERCARD
EVENT.
MEANWHILE, DEMOCRATS ANNOUNCED
THEIR OWN SCHEDULE OF PRIMARY
DEBATES.
THEY BEGIN OCTOBER 13 IN NEVADA
AND END WITH AN EVENT IN
WISCONSIN, HOSTED BY THE PBS
NEWSHOUR.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT
TONIGHT'S REPUBLICAN ROUNDABOUT,
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
PENNSYLVANIA, KATHLEEN KANE, WAS
CHARGED TODAY WITH LEAKING GRAND
JURY INFORMATION TO DAMAGE
OPPONENTS.
THE 49-YEAR-OLD DEMOCRAT
ALLEGEDLY HOPED TO EMBARRASS A
FORMER STATE PROSECUTOR.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT IN
NORRISTOWN DETAILED CHARGES OF
OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE AND
PERJURY.
>> TO ARRIVE AT THE CHARGES WE
FILED TODAY, WE SIMPLY FOLLOWED
THE EVIDENCE, APPLIED THE LAW
AND MADE THE DECISIONS THAT WERE
RIGHT UNDER THE CIRCUMSTANCES.
AND OUR ACTIONS HERE TODAY MAKE
ONE THING CRYSTAL CLEAR BEYOND
ANY DOUBT: THAT NO ONE IS ABOVE
THE LAW-- NOT EVEN THE CHIEF LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER OF THE
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
>> Ifill: KANE HAS BEEN IN
OFFICE FOR THREE YEARS, AND HAS
COME UNDER INCREASING FIRE OVER
HER JOB PERFORMANCE.
BUT SHE SAID TODAY SHE WILL NOT
RESIGN.
FIRE CREWS IN CALIFORNIA NEARED
A TURNING POINT TODAY AS THEY
CONTINUED TO BEAT BACK A HUGE
WILDFIRE BURNING NORTH OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
THE ROCKY FIRE HAS BLACKENED
MORE THAN 107 SQUARE MILES IN
THE LAST WEEK.
IT IS NOW 40% CONTAINED.
STILL, GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN
WARNED TODAY THAT FIREFIGHTERS
FACE MUCH DRIER, MORE
UNPREDICTABLE CONDITIONS AFTER
YEARS OF DROUGHT.
>> THIS IS REALLY A WAKE-UP CALL
BECAUSE OF THE WAY THIS FIRE
PERFORMED.
IT'S NOT THE WAY IT USUALLY HAS
BEEN.
IT'S GOING IN LOTS OF DIFFERENT
DIRECTIONS, MOVING FAST, EVEN
WITHOUT HOT WINDS.
SO IT'S A NEW NORMAL.
WE'RE GOING TO GET READY.
WE HAVE RESOURCES AND WE'LL NEED
MORE.
>> Ifill: ELSEWHERE, CREWS ALSO
MADE HEADWAY TODAY AGAINST
WILDFIRES BURNING IN WASHINGTON
STATE AND IDAHO.
IN SAUDI ARABIA, A SUICIDE
ATTACK AT A MOSQUE KILLED AT
LEAST 15 PEOPLE TODAY, MOST OF
THEM POLICE.
A NEW ISLAMIC STATE AFFILIATE
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY.
THE TARGET WAS IN THE CITY OF
ABHA, CLOSE TO THE KINGDOM'S
BORDER WITH WAR-TORN YEMEN.
THE MOSQUE WAS USED BY THE
INTERIOR MINISTRY'S SPECIAL
FORCES.
OFFICIALS SAID TRAINEES WERE IN
THE MIDDLE OF FRIDAY PRAYERS
WHEN THE BOMB WENT OFF.
THE PEOPLE OF JAPAN MARKED 70
YEARS TODAY SINCE THE UNITED
STATES DROPPED THE ATOMIC BOMB
THAT OBLITERATED HIROSHIMA.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT WILLIAM
BRANGHAM REPORTS ON THE DAY'S
CEREMONIES.
>> Brangham: PEACE LLS BETOLLED
THIS MORNING AT WHAT'S KNOWN AS
THE ATOMIC BOMB DOME-- A
MEMORIAL NEAR THE EPICENTER OF
THE BLAST IN HIROSHIMA.
THEIR HAUNTING SOUND MIXED WITH
THE WHIR OF CICADAS, AS TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE STOOD FOR A
MOMENT OF SILENCE AND PRAYER.
MOMENT OF SILENCE AND PRAYER. >>
(translated): IT'S THE
70th
>> (translated): IT'S
THE 70th YEAR AND I FEEL IT'S A
LANDMARK
YEAR AND I FEEL IT'S A LANDMARK
YEAR.
MY GRANDFATHER DIED HERE AT THE
TIME AND I KEEP WONDERING WHAT
HE FELT THEN.
HE WAS JUST 21 YEARS OLD AND IT
PAINS ME TO THINK HE DIED SO
YOUNG.
>> Brangham: THE SOLEMN CEREMONY
WAS FOLLOWED BY THE RELEASE OF
DOVES, SYMBOLIZING PEACE, THIS,
IN THE ONLY COUNTRY TO EVER BE
ATTACKED WITH AN ATOMIC BOMB.
IT WAS 8:15 IN THE MORNING-- ON
AUGUST 6, 1945-- WHEN THE BOMB
NICKNAMED "LITTLE BOY" LAID
WASTE TO HIROSHIMA.
IN AN INSTANT, THE CITY OF
350,000 PEOPLE WAS TURNED INTO A
VAST, RADIOACTIVE RUIN.
NEARLY 70,000 DIED THAT DAY,
AND BY THE END OF 1945, THE
DEATH TOLL ROSE TO
140,000 FROM RADIATION
POISONING.
IN THE YEARS SINCE, ANOTHER
160,000 HAVE DIED FROM CANCERS
FOR SOME, THIS HAS BEEN TOO
PAINFUL A MEMORY TO RELIVE,
UNTIL NOW...
UNTIL NOW... >> (
translated): I DID NOT
>> (translated): I DID
NOT WANT TO SEE THIS FOR A LONG
WANT TO SEE THIS FOR A LONG
TIME. WHEN THIS WAS REGISTERED
AS WORLD HERITAGE, I THOUGHT
ABOUT COMING HERE.
BUT, STILL, I DID NOT WANT TO
SEE THIS PLACE.
>> Braham:ng THE U.S. BOMBING
OF HIROSHIMA WAS FOLLOWED BY
ANOTHER BOMB BEING DROPPED ON
NAGASAKI, JUST THREE DAYS LATER.
40,000 PEOPLE DIED THERE IN AN
INSTANT, AND WITHIN DAYS, JAPAN
SURRENDERED, BRINGING WORLD WAR
II TO AN END.
TAY, ODONLY ABOUT 180,000 AGING
SURVIVORS OF BOTH BOMBINGS
REMAIN.
REMAIN. >> (translated
): MY FATHER AND
>> (translated): MY
FATHER AND SISTER WERE IN THE
BLAST, AND I
SISTER WERE IN THE BLAST, AND I
AM IN MY LATE 70s NEARLY 80.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH LONGER
I CAN COME HERE, BUT I AM HERE
TO PRAY FOR PEACE.
>> Brangham: JAPANESE PRIME
MINISTER SHINZO ABE MET WITH
SOME OF THE SURVIVORS TODAY, AND
AT THE SERVICE, HE RENEWED
JAPAN'S APPEAL TO ABOLISH
NUCLEAR WEAPONS ONCE AND FOR
ALL.
ALL. >> (translated
): THIS YEAR
>> (translated): THIS
YEAR MARKS THE 70th ANNIVERSARY
SINCE
MARKS THE 70th ANNIVERSARY SINCE
HE NTUCLEAR BOMBING.
AT THE MEETING OF THE TREATY ON
THE NON-PROLIFERATION OF NUCLEAR
WEAPONS, UNFORTUNATELY WE WERE
UNABLE TO REACH A FINAL
AGREEMENT.
AND I AM DETERMINED TO STEP UP
EFFORTS IN ORDER TO REALIZE A
WORLD WITHOUT NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
>> Brangham: AND, AS NIGHT FELL
OVER THE CITY, IN A FINAL
TRIBUTE TO THE DEAD, THOUSANDS
OF COLORFUL LANTERNS WERE
RELEASED ON THE RIVER IN FRONT
OF THE HIROSHIMA MEMORIAL.
>> Ifill: TODAY'S ANNIVERSARY
CAME AT A TIME WHEN JAPAN IS
DIVIDED OVER WHETHER TO EXPAND
THE COUNTRY'S MILITARY ROLE
ABROAD.
THAT'S PARTLY IN RESPONSE TO
CHINA'S GROWING POWER.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SAID TODAY THAT CHINA SHOULD
STOP CAUSING TERRITORIAL
TENSIONS IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
KERRY SPOKE AT A SUMMIT OF
SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS IN
MALAYSIA.
HE SAID HE CHALLENGED THE
CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTER ON
BEIJING'S AGGRESSIVE MOVES,
DESPITE ITS PROMISES.
>> ON THE SECURITY SIDE I
EXPRESSED OUR SERIOUS CONCERNS
OVER THE DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
SOUTH CHINA SEA INCLUDING THE
MASSIVE LANDECLA RMATION AND THE
POTENTIAL MILITARIZATION OF LAND
FEATURES.
I REITERATED AMERICA'S STRONG
SUPPORT FOR FREEDOM OF
NAVIGATION, OVERFLIGHT AND OTHER
LAWFUL USES OF THE SEA.
>> Ifill: CHINA CLAIMS MOST OF
THE SOUTH CHINA SEA, BUT HAS
OVERLAPPING CLAIMS WITH THE
PHILIPPINES, VIETNAM, MALAYSIA,
TAIWAN AND BRUNEI.
SECRETARY KERRY ALSO DENIED
TODAY THERE WAS ANY DEAL WITH
MALAYSIA ON A HUMAN TRAFFICKING
REPORT.
LAST MONTH, THE STATE DEPARTMENT
UPGRADED THE COUNTRY'S STANDING
IN AN ANNUAL REPORT ON FIGHTING
SLAVERY.
SOME SENATORS HAVE CHARGED THE
MOVE WAS MADE TO ENSURE
MALAYSIAN BACKING FOR PACIFIC
TRADE NEGOTIATIONS.
KERRY DENIED ANY SUCH CONNECTION
TODAY.
WITH POMP AND CIRCUMSTANCE,
EGYPT OFFICIALLY OPENED A HIGHLY
TOUTED EXTENSION TO THE SUEZ
CANAL TODAY.
MILITARY AIRCRAFT FLEW OVERHEAD
AS PRESIDENT ABDEL FATTAH AL-
SISSI RODE ABOARD A REFURBISHED
YACHT, THAT ALSO SAILED THE
CANAL WHEN IT FIRST OPENED, IN
1869.
AT A CEREMONY LATER, EL-SISSI
HIGHLIGHTED CAIRO'STRUG SGLE
WITH ISLAMIST TERROR GROUPS.
WITH ISLAMIST TERROR GROUPS. >>
(translated): THE
EGYPTIANS
>> (translated): THE
EGYPTIANS PUT A LOT OF FORTEF
INTO
PUT A LOT OF FORTEF INTO
PRESENTING TO THE WORLD, AND TO
EGYPT, A PRESENT FOR HUMANITY.
EGYPT ALSO FACED THE MOST
DESTRUCTIVE IDEOLOGY AND
TERRORISM, AN IDEOLOGY THAT IF
IT CAPTURES THE LAND IT WILL
BURN THE LAND.
INSTEAD, WE SHOW BUILDINGS AND
PROSPERITY TO THE WORLD, NOT
KILLINGS AND DESTRUCTION.
>> Ifill: IT TOOK JUST ONE YEAR
TO COMPLETE THE NEW SHIPPING
LANE ALONG THE CANAL, AT A COST
OF $8.5 BILLION.
WALL STREET HAD ANOTHER DOWN
DAY, FUELED BY CONCERNS OVER
FALLING CABLE TV REVENUES.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN 120 POINTS
TO CLOSE BACK NEAR 17,400.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN 80
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 GAVE UP
16.
AND, A LONG-LOST, PRICELESS
VIOLIN HAS BEEN REUNITED WITH
THE FAMILY IT WAS STOLEN FROM,
35 YEARS AGO.
THE AMES STRADIVARIUS WAS MADE
IN ITY INAL 1734 AND BELONGED TO
RENOWNED VIOLINIST ROMAN
TOTENBERG.
IT DISAPPEARED IN 1980, AS HIS
DAUGHTER, NPR CORRESPONDENT
NINA TOTENBERG, RECALLED.
>> HE HAD GIVEN A CONCERT IN
BOSTON AT THE LONGY SCHOOL OF
MUSIC, WHERE HE WAS THE MUSIC
DIRECTOR AT THAT POINT.
AND HE WAS GREETING WELL-WISHERS
AFTER THE CONCERT.
AND WHEN HE TURNED AROUND TO GO
RETRIEVE HIS VIOLIN FROM HIS
OFFICE SLASH DRESSING ROOM, IT
WAS GONE.
AND IT WAS A CRUSHING BLOW
BECAUSE IT HAD BEEN, AS HE PUT
IT, HIS MUSICAL PARTNER FOR 38
YEARS.
>> Ifill: ROMAN TOTENBERG DIED
THREE YEARS AGO, AND THE VIOLIN
SURFACED TWO MONTHS AGO, WHEN A
WOMAN HAD IT APPRAISED IN NEW
YORK.
IT HAD BEEN LEFT TO HER BY HER
EX-HUSBAND, BUT SHE TOLD
INVESTIGATORS SHE DID NOT KNOW
IT WAS STOLEN, AND SHE RETURNED
IT TO THE TOTENBERG FAMILY.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE STAGE IS SET FOR THE FIRST
REPUBLICAN DEBATE.
NEW CHALLENGES, 50 YEARS AFTER
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT WAS
SIGNED.
AND MUCH MORE.
>> Ifill: TONIGHT IN CLEVELAND,
17 REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES ARE
FACING EACH OTHER IN A PAIR OF
HIGHLY ANTICIPATED DEBATES
SPONSORED BY FOX NEWS.
DONALD TRUMP LEADS THE FIELD
HEADING INTO THE NIGHT, AND THE
OTHER CANDIDATES ARE HOPING TO
USE THE EVENT TO STEAL A LITTLE
OF HIS THUNDER.
POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
DESJARDINS IS IN CLEVELAND
COVERING IT, AND SHE JOINS ME
NOW.
LISA, DO WE KNOW WHAT DONALD
TRUMP'S STRATEGY IS?
THERE'S BEEN MUCH, MUCH TALK
ABOUT HIS APPEARANCE ON THAT
STAGE IN A FEW HOURS.
>> WELL, MUCH LIKE EVERYTHING
ELSE WITH DONALD TRUMP, HIS
CAMPAIGN IS GIVING A DIFFERENT
TAKE THAN YOU MIGHT EXPECT.
THEY'RE SAYING DONALD TRUMP HAS
NOT PREPARED AT ALL FOR THIS
DEBATE AND THEY'RE BOASTING
ABOUT THAT.
BUT IF YOU TALK TO OTHER
CAMPAIGNS, GWEN, HIS OPPONENTS,
THEY WILL TELL YOU, ON
BACKGROUND, NOT GIVING NAMES,
THEY FRANKLY DON'T BELIEVE r IT.
TRUMP WANTS TO PUT IT OUT HE'S A
MAN WHO SAYS WHAT'S ON THE TOP
OF HIS HEAD.
>> Ifill: WHAT ARE THE OTHER
CANDIDATES TRYING TO DO AND WHO
HAS THE MOST RIDING ON FINDING A
WAY TO STAND OUT?
>> RIGHT.
TONIGHT IN PRIME TIME THE OTHER
NINE CANDIDATES WHO MAY HAVE THE
MOST RIDING ON THIS IS MARCO
RUBIO AND RAND PAUL CAME OUT
STRONG BEFORE THE ANNOUNCEMENT.
A LOT WAS EXPECTED OF THEM.
RIGHT NOW IN THE POLLS, WE SEE
THEM NOT LIVING UP TO THAT
EXPECTATION.
SO I THINK THEY HAVE A LOT
RIDING ON THIS TONIGHT.
ALSO, JEB BUSH.
JEB BUSH WANTS TO BE THE
REASONABLE AND ALTERNATIVE TO
DONALD TRUMP, BUT RIGHT NOW,
FRANKLY, I THINK HIS CAMPAIGN
C MOMENTUM.
AS FOR STRATEGY, JEB BUSH, HE
CAME OUT WITH A VIDEO TODAY
TALKING ABOUT HIS EXPERIENCE,
BUT ONE WE'LL WANT TO PAY
ATTENTION TO IS TED CRUZ.
I WAS STANDING WITH HIM IN A
CREW OF OTHER REPORTERS AND HE
SAYS HE'S RUNNING AS A POPULOUS.
HE KEPT SAYING PHRASES LIKE THE
WORKING MAN, STEELWORKERS,
THAT'S WHO HE'S FIGHTING FOR.
HE HAS A STRATEGY TONIGHT WHERE
HE'S GOING FOR BLUE-COLLAR
WORKERS AND I THINK HE'S NOT
GOING AFTER DONALD TRUMP.
>> Ifill: WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
TEN PEOPLE ON STAGE, A MINUTE TO
SPEAK, ONLY A FEW SECONDS OF
REBUTTAL AFTERWARDS.
THE THREE MODERATORS.
HOW'S ALL THAT GOING TO FIT?
>> YOU KNOW, I HAVE MY QUESTIONS
ABOUT THAT MYSELF.
BUT FROM LOOKING AT THE EARLY
DEBATE, T ONEHE THAT JUST
FINISHED A FEW MINUTES AGO, THEY
DID ACTUALLY SEEM TO GET IN SOME
SUBSTANCE TO THESE QUESTIONS
AND, IN FACT, THEY DIDN'T HAVE
TO USE MUCH REBUTTAL TIME AT
ALL.
WE'LL SEE.
I BELIEVE, GOING OFF THE FIRST
DEBATE, THE FOX NEWS ANCHORS DID
SEEM TO WANT TO ENCOURAGE
CANDIDATES TO CHALLENGE OR GO
AFTER EACH OTHER.
IF A CANDIDATE NAMES ANOTHER
CANDIDATE ON STAGE BY NAME, THE
OTHER CANDIDATE BEING ATTACKED
WILL HAVE TIME FOR REBUTTAL.
WE'RE NOT SURE HOW THAT WILL
WORK.
BUT GIVEN THE EARLIER DEBATE, A
ONE-MINUTE ANSWER, THE
CANDIDATES CLEARLY GOT A LOT IN
AND PREPARED.
>> Ifill: THE EARLIER DEBATE,
SEVEN FOLKS DIDN'T MAKE THE CUT
OFF FOR THE BIG DEBATE.
>> CARLY FIORINA HAD A STRONG
MOMENT WHEN SHE WAS ASKED BY
DONALD TRUMP AND SHE WENT
STRAIGHT FOR HIM.
SHE SAID DONALD TRUMP -- SHE
ASKED, DID YOU EVER GET A CALL
FROM BILL CLINTON?
SHE SEEMED TO BE THE MOST
AGGRESSIVE ON STAGE.
SHE HAD A BIG MOMENT.
OTHER THAN THAT, HONESTLY, WE
HEARD A LOT OF STUMP SPEECHES
AND THINGS WE'VE HEARD BEFORE
FROM THE CANDIDATES.
>> Ifill: CIRCUS ON ONE END
AND SERVER ON THE OTHER, WHAT
ARE THE ATMOSPHERE IN CLEVELAND
LEADING TO THE FACEOFF?
>> WE CAME INTO THIS DEBATE
THINKING WHAT AN AMAZING
ATMOSPHERE, 17 CANDIDATES, NEVER
HAS HAPPENED BEFORE, BUT I WILL
TELL YOU, BEING IN THIS ARENA,
THERE IS REALLY NOT THAT SENSE
OF DRAMA.
TALKING TO CANDIDATES AND THEIR
CAMPAIGNS, THERE IS ALMOST A
SENSE OF THE UNKNOWN, A SENSE OF
HESITANCY ABOUT WHAT'S AHEAD AND
HOW TO HANDLE IT, NOT A DRAMATIC
SENSE BUT A QUESTIONING SENSE
AND THAT, FRANKLY, IS SURPRISING
ME.
ALSO TALKING TO REPUBLICAN AIDS
OUTSIDE OF THE CAMPAIGN, THERE'S
A CONCERN ABOUT TONIGHT'S
DEBATE, THEY DON'T WANT IT TO
BECOME A CIRCUS.
THEY HOPED TO HEAR WOULD BE A
LITTLE BIT MORE STRESS-FREER, BE
MORE ORGANIZED THAN PAST YEARS
AND THEY'RE CONCERNED THIS COULD
GO OFF THE RAIL WITH SO MANY
CANDIDATE AND SO MANY
UNPREDICTABLE CANDIDATES.
>> Ifill: MAYBE IF THEY BRING
IN LeBRON FOR A WALK THROUGH
THAT WILL BRING SOME EXCITEMENT.
LISA DESJARDINS, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: 50 YEARS AGO TODAY,
THE LANDMARK VOTING RIGHTS ACT
WAS SIGNED INTO LAW BY PRESIDENT
LYNDON JOHNSON.
MR. JOHNSON CALLED THE RIGHT TO
VOTE "THE MOST POWERFUL
INSTRUMENT EVER DEVISED BY MAN
FOR BREAKING DOWN INJUSTICE."
PRESIDENT OBAMA MARKED THE
OCCASION TODAY BY HOSTING CIVIL
RIGHTS LEADERS, INCLUDING
ATTORNEY GENERAL LORETTA LYNCH
AND CONGRESSMAN JOHN LEWIS, AT
THE WHITE HOUSE.
HALF A CENTURY LATER, HE SAID,
VOTING RIGHTS ARE STILL AT RISK.
HE SINGLED OUT A 2013 SUPREME
COURT DECISION THAT ALLOWS 15
PREVIOUSLY-MONITORED STATES TO
CHANGE THEIR ELECTION LAWS
WITHOUT FEDERAL APPROVAL.
>> IN PRACTICE, WE'VE STILL GOT
PROBLEMS.
ON THE GROUND, THERE ARE STILL
TOO MANY WAYS IN WHICH PEOPLE
ARE DISCOURAGED FROM VOTING.
SOME OF THE PROTECTIONS THAT HAD
BEEN ENSHRINED IN THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT ITSELF HAVE BEEN
WEAKENED AS A CONSEQUENCE OF
COURT DECISIONS AND
>> Ifill: FOR MORE ON THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF TODAY'S
ANNIVERSARY, WE ARE JOINED BY
KAREEM CRAYTON, A VOTING RIGHTS
SCHOLAR AND CONSULTANT, ZOLTAN
HAJNAL, PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL
SCIENCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO.
HE'S CO-AUTHOR OF A RECENT
REPORT ON VOTER PARTICIPATION.
AND, IMANI CLARK.
SHE IS A STUDENT AT PRAIRIE VIEW
A&M UNIVERSITY, A HISTORICALLY
BLACK COLLEGE IN WALLER COUNTY,
TEXAS.
SHE IS A PLAINTIFF IN A
CHALLENGE TO A TEXAS VOTER I.D.
LAW OVERTURNED BY A FEDERAL
APPEALS COURT ONLY YESTERDAY.
ZOLTAN HAJNAL, I WANT TO TALK A
LITTLE ABOUT THE FINDINGS IN
YOUR REPORT.
50 YEARS LATER, HOW DO YOU
QUANTIFY THE EFFECT OF THE
VOTING RIGHTS ACT?
>> WELL, IT'S QUANTIFIABLE IN
ALL SORTS OF DIFFERENT WAYS BUT
THE MAIN ONES ARE IN TERMS OF
VOTER REGISTRATION.
WHEN THE ACT WAS PASSED IN 1965,
ONLY 15% OF BLACKS WERE
REGISTERED TO VOTE IN SEVERAL
STATES.
AFTER THE ACT WAS PASSED, THE
REGISTRATION WENT THROUGH THE
ROOF AND THEY ARE NOW ON PAR
WITH WHITES IN REGISTRATION IN
THE SOUTH.
ONLY A HANDFUL OF BLACKS WERE IN
OFFICE ACROSS THE SOUTH BEFORE
THE ACT WAS INSTITUTED.
AFTER THE ACT WAS INSTITUTED,
THE NUMBER OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN
AND LATINO-PRESSURE OFFICIALS
GREW TO THE POINT WHERE BLACKS
HAVE ABOUT 10,000 ELECTED
POSITIONS ACROSS THE NATION,
LATINOS HAVE ABOUT 6,000 AND
ASIAN-AMERICANS.
ALL THIS IS IN LARGE PART TO THE
VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
>> Ifill: IMANI CLARK YOU WERE
AT THE WHITE HOUSE WHEN THE
PRESIDENT, JOHN LEWIS, WERE EKE
SPUEING ABOUT THE 50-YEAR
ANNIVERSARY.
I WANT YOU TO TELL US YOUR
STORY.
YOU WANTED TO VOTE.
YOU HAD VOTED BEFORE.
>> YES.
>> Ifill: BUT THE LAW CHANGED.
TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED.
>> MY FRESHMAN YEAR ATTENDING
PRAIRIE VIEW A&M UNIVERSITY, I
WAS ABLE TO VOTE DURING THE CITY
ELECTION WITH MY STUDENT I.D.
CARD AND SOON AFTER THAT, YOU
KNOW, THIS LAW WAS GOING INTO
EFFECT THAT WAS PREVENTING
STUDENTS LIKE ME, AND IT ALSO
WAS TARGETING MINORITIES, AND IT
JUST PREVENTED MOST OF US FROM
VOTING WITHOUT A TEXAS I.D.
LICENSE OR A CONCEALED HANDGUN
LICENSE.
>> Ifill: SO WHY TINTED YOUR
STUDENT I.D. COUNT FOR THAT
ANYMORE?
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
THAT'S THE QUESTION WE'RE ALL
WONDERING.
>> Ifill: WHAT HAPPENED AS A
RESULT OF IT BEING UPHELD
YESTERDAY OR OVERTURNED
YESTERDAY?
DOES THIS MEAN THAT YOU CAN
VOTE?
>> AS OF RIGHT NOW, YES, THAT
DOES MEAN THAT I CAN VOTE.
BUT, YOU KNOW, WE KNOW HOW THE
GAME GOES.
MOST LIKELY, THEY'RE GOING TO
APPEAL, AND IT'S JUST GOING TO
BE THIS ONGOING FIGHT.
SO WE'LL SEE.
>> Ifill: HERE'S THE OTHER
QUESTION PEOPLE ASK ABOUT VOTER
I.D. CASES WHICH IS WHY NOT GET
THE STATE-ISSUED I.D.
WHAT'S THE BARRIER TO THAT?
>> FOR ME, I'M A STUDENT, I'M IN
MANY ORGANIZATIONS, I HAVE A JOB
AS WELL AND I JUST HAVE
COMMITMENTS.
SO BEING IN RURAL TEXAS, IT'S
HARD FOR ME TO FIND TIME TO GO
AND GET THE FORM OF
IDENTIFICATION I NEED, PLUS I
DON'T HAVE A CAR, AND THERE'S NO
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EITHER.
SO THEY DON'T MAKE IT EASY FOR
US TO GET THE NECESSARY
IDENTIFICATION.
>> Ifill: KAREEM CRAYTON, I
WANT YOU TO TELL ME ABOUT
ANOTHER VOTING RIGHTS ACT CASE
HANGING IN THE FIRE, IN
NORTH CAROLINA.
THIS IS WHAT YOU CALL A VOTER
SUPPRESSION CASE?
>> INDEED.
THE LEGISLATURE IN
NORTH CAROLINA AFTER THE
REPUBLICANS TOOK OVER IN 2010
ADOPTED A SERIES OF CHANGES IN
THE VOTING SYSTEM IN THE STATE
AND IT INCLUDED LIMITING ACCESS
TO SAME-DAY REGISTRATION,
NARROWING THE AVAILABILITY OF
EARLY VOTING, AND IN ALL OF
THOSE CASES, THERE ARE OTHERS AS
WELL, THE EFFECT WAS TO LIMIT
THE OPPORTUNITY OF PEOPLE TO
CAST BALLOTS.
THAT WAS CHALLENGED IN A LAWSUIT
THAT WAS HEARD IN THE
WINSTON-SALEM PART OF
NORTH CAROLINA IN THE FEDERAL
DISTRICT COURT.
THE TRIAL JUST ENDED, AND THE
DISTRICT COURT JUDGE IS
PONDERING A DECISION, SO WE
SHOULD HEAR BACK I SUSPECT IN A
FEW WEEKS OR EVEN MONTHS ON THAT
DECISION AND AS IN THE TEXAS
CASE, I THINK EVERYONE EXPECTS
AN APPEAL.
>> Ifill: SO WHEN YOU TALK
ABOUT EARLY VOTING, YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT VOTING ON SUNDAYS
OR GETTING PEOPLE TO THE POLLS
EARLY?
>> CORRECT.
AND THESE WERE IMPLEMENTED
DURING THE '90s IN A TIME WHEN
THE LEGISLATURE UNDERSTOOD THERE
WAS A GOOD THING TO EXPAND
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO CAST
BALLOTS.
OTHER CHANGES INCLUDED ALLOWING
PEOPLE TO PRE-REGISTER BEFORE
THEY BECAME OF AGE, AND ALL OF
THESE THINGS WERE THOUGHT TO BE
GO GOOD GOVERNMENT MEASURES.
THERE IS REALLY NO EXPLANATION
FOR WHY IT WAS ROLLED BACK UNDER
THE REPUBLICAN REGIMEHE WAS TO T
THE VOTE FROM FRAUD,
NOTWITHSTANDING THE FACT THERE
WAS NO EVIDENCE OF FRAUD.
SO THE PLAINTIFFS WERE ARGUING
TO THE COURT, IT MAKES NO SENSE
TO ROLL BACK THESE PROVISIONS,
PARTICULARLY WHEN THERE ARE VERY
CLEAR INDICATIONS THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE SIGNIFICANT
DISCRIMINATORY EFFECTS ON A LOT
OF COMMUNITIES INCLUDING YOUNG
PEOPLE AND RACIAL MINORITY
GROUPS AS WELL.
>> Ifill: I GUESS THAT WAS MY
NEXT QUESTION IS WHY DOES IT
HAVE A DISPROPORTION IMPACT ON
MINORITIES OR YOUNG PEOPLE?
WHY WOULDN'T IT HAVE THE SAME
IMPACT ACROSS THE BOARD?
>> MS. CLARK FROM TEXAS GAVE A
PRETTY GOOD EXAMPLE OF THIS.
IF THESE PROVISIONS WERE MADE
WHERE IT REALLY DID APPLY TO
EVERYONE EQUALLY, I THINK VERY
FEW PEOPLE COULD HAVE A VERY
STRONG ARGUMENT AGAINST IT.
BUT THE REASON THESE VOTING
RESTRICTIONS ARE TROUBLESOME IS
BECAUSE THEY'RE VERY SELECTIVE.
SO YOU CAN HAVE A GUN LICENSE,
AND THAT AUTOMATICALLY COUNTS
FOR THE REQUIRED I.D., BUT YOU
CAN'T HAVE A STUDENT I.D.
THE SAME-DAY REGISTRATION,
AGAIN, THE LIMITATIONS OF EARLY
VOTING ARE ALL SEEMINGLY
BURDENING PEOPLE WHO SEEM TO
FALL INTO THESE GROUPS THAT A
LOT OF REPUBLICANS DON'T TEND TO
THINK THAT VOTE FOR THEM OR THAT
LIKE THEM, AND THEIR FRIENDS ARE
OTHERWISE PROTECTED.
BUT MORE IMPORTANT THAN THAT,
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT IS
DESIGNED TO PROTECT THESE
COMMUNITIES BECAUSE WE HAVE A
LONG HISTORY OF EXCLUDING AND
MARGINALIZING THEM, AND THAT'S
REALLY A CONCERN HERE AND THE
ARGUMENT THAT'S BEING PRESENTED
TO THE COURT.
>> Ifill: ZOLTAN HAJNAL, WHY
IS IT THAT THIS HASN'T BEEN MORE
A SUCCESS THAN FAILURE OVER THE
50 YEARS, OR HAS IT?
>> WELL, I WOULD SAY IT HAS BEEN
A SUCCESS.
WE'VE COME A LONG WAY FROM WHERE
WE WERE IN 1965, FOR SURE, BUT
WE STILL HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO,
AND THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT CAN BE
PART OF THAT AND THERE ARE OTHER
ELEMENTS.
BUT IF WE LOOK AT THE NUMBER OF
ELECTED OFFICIALS, THERE IS BEEN
TREMENDOUS PROGRESS, BUT IF WE
LOOK AT THE HALLS OF POWER,
THEY'RE DOMINATED BY WHITE
AMERICANS.
90% OF ALL ELECTED OFFICIALS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE WHITE.
IF WE LOOK AT ALL KINDS OF
DIFFERENT ASPECTS OF THE VOTE,
IT STILL AND MAYBE EVEN
INCREASINGLY RACIALLY DIVIDED.
SO YOU HAVE A MAJORITY OF WHITE
POPULATION IN A LOT OF THE
OUTCOMES AND OFTEN TO THE
DETRIMENT OF RACIAL AND ETHNIC
MINORITIES AND AS YOU HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT, THERE ARE SIGNS
OF MOVING BACKWARD IN TERMS OF
REDUCING ACCESS TO THE VOTE,
STRICT VOTER I.D. LAWS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO WE NEED THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT, WE NEED IT BEEFED UP AND IN
ADDITION WE NEED EXTRA
PROVISIONS THAT ALLOW MINORITIES
A FULL SAY IN AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY.
>> Ifill: HERE'S THE
LANDSCAPE.
THE PRESIDENT TODAY SAID THE
SUPREME COURT ROLLED BACK A
SECTION OF THE LAW WHICH WAS
CONSIDERED A SETBACK BY VOTING
RIGHTS ACTIVISTS AND YOU'RE ALSO
WAITING ON THE CASES THAT COULD
BE APPEALED AND END UP AT THE
SUPREME COURT AND TODAY WE SAW
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER MITCH
McCONNELL WHO IS IS A
SUPPORTER OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT OR AT LEAST TO RENEW IT SAY
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT IS IN TACT
AND FINE.
SO I WANT TO ASK YOU TBOAT THE
QUESTION, IS THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT IN TACT?
>> NO, AND I THINK SENATOR
MCCONNELL -- I TAKE HIM AT HIS
WORD OF BEING A SUPPORTER OF THE
ACT -- IF HE REALLY UNDERSTOOD
THE IMPACT IT HAS ON COMMUNITIES
THAT HAVE TO WAIT YEARS FOR
LITIGATION TO FINALLY CONCLUDE
TO DETERMINE WHAT IS AND ISN'T
LEGAL, DURING WHICH THERE ARE
ELECTIONS AND POLICIES ADOPTED,
THAT IS LOST BY NOT HAVING
SECTION 5, THE PRE-CLEARANCE
PROVISION THAT STOPS ACTS A
LEGISLATURE MIGHT HAVE THAT HAS
NEGATIVE EFFECTS BEFORE THEY'RE
ENACTED.
UNDER THE CURRENT REGIME YOU
HAVE TO GO TO THE SUPREME COURT
TO RESOLVE THE LEGALITIES OF THE
RULES.
>> PRE-CLEARANCE IS THE KEY TO
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
WITH THE SUPREME COURT STRIKING
IT DOWN, THE BURDEN IS NOW ON
INDIVIDUALS AND ORGANIZATIONS TO
PROVE THAT AN ACT IS
DISCRIMINATORY.
THAT COST AS LOT OF TIME AND
MONEY.
WHEREAS BEFORE, THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT, THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT HAD OVERSIGHT AND
COULD PREVENT ANY
DISENFRANCHISING LAWS FROM
OCCURRING BEFORE THEY WERE PUT
INTO LAW.
>> Ifill: IMANI, ARE YOU
OPTIMISTIC FOR THE BENEFIT?
>> I'M STAYING HOPEFUL.
I REALLY WISH THAT STUDENTS MY
AGE AND YOUNGER PEOPLE WILL
REALLY UNDERSTAND THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS AND HOW
IMPORTANT IT IS TO VOTE.
MAINLY PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, HAVE
THE RIGHT TO VOTE AND CAN VOTE
BUT DON'T VOTE, AND I JUST WISH
THAT I CAN.
I HAVE BEEN WAITING YEARS JUST
TO BE ABLE TO PARTICIPATE IN
SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
>> Ifill: IN THE END, IF YOU
HAVE THE RIGHT, YOU'VE GOT TO
USE IT.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Ifill: ZOLTAN HAJNAL, IMANI
CLARK, KAREEM CRAYTON, THANK
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE PUT
TOGETHER A SPECIAL PROJECT USING
THE VOICES OF THE PEOPLE WHO
WERE AFFECTED BY THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT FIFTY YEARS AGO.
YOU CAN LEARN THEIR STORIES ON
OUR HOME PAGE, pbs.org/newshour.
STAY WITH US, COMING UP ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
A DEADLY OUTBREAK OF SEVERE
PNEUMONIA SPREADS IN NEW YORK
CITY.
JON STEWART SAYS FAREWELL TO THE
DAILY SHOW.
AND, MICHAEL LEWIS' BRIEF BUT
SPECTACULAR TAKE ON THE FAILINGS
OF WALL STREET.
NOW, A LOOK AT FOOD DESERTS,
UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES THAT
LACK ACCESS TO FRESH FOOD.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN EXAMINES HOW ONE GROCERY
STORE CHAIN HAS DEVISED A
DIFFERENT BUSINESS MODEL TO
ADDRESS THE PROBLEM.
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
FOURTH GENERATION
PHILADELPHIA SUPERMARKET OWNER
JEFF BROWN IS A HANDS-ON C.E.O.
>> IS EVERYTHING ALL RIGHT?
YES.
>> Reporter: WITH CUSTOMERS
AND EMPLOYEES ALIKE.
BROWN IS RENOWNED FOR DOING THE
SEEM LIG IMPOSSIBLE, HE OPERATES
SEVEN PROFITABLE STORES IN FOOD
DESERTS, LOW INCOME
NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE SUPERMARKETS
LONG FEARED TO DREAD.
BUS DRIVER KEVIN GRIFFIN THOUGHT
IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE.
>> WE HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS
IN A LONG TIME.
>> Brown: THIS IS THE SECTION
OF NORTH PHILLY KNOWN FOR
SHUTTERED FACTORIES NOT
SUPERMARKETS.
THERE HASN'T BEEN ONE HERE IN 20
YEARS.
>> THIS IS THE FIRST PLACE SINCE
THEN WE'LL STOCK THE PRODUCE,
THE MEAT AND EVERYTHING IS SO
FRESH.
>> Reporter: THIS PROPERTY WAS
AAN ABANDONED PLANT BEFORE JEFF
CAME AROUND.
>> WHEN WE LOOKED AT THE REAL
ESTATE, THERE WERE NO OTHER
INTERESTED PARTIES.
>> Reporter: BROWN SAW THE
CHANCE FOR AN OASIS.
>> I SAW 75,000 PEOPLE WITH NO
GROCERY STORE.
>> Reporter: HOW TO SUCCEED IN
A BUSINESS THAT TRADITIONALLY
LOST ABOUT 4 CENTS ON A DOLLAR'S
WORTH OF SALES BY TRYING
EVERYTHING, GOING FOR TAX
BREAKS, GOVERNMENT AND
FOUNDATION GRANTS, EVEN GETTING
A NEW BUS STOP IN FRONT OF THE
STORE.
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS LIKE
THESE OFFSET COST BYS ABOUT 2.5
CENTS FOR EVERY DOLLAR OF SALES.
ADD AN EXTRA 2.5 CENTS, AND YOU
WIND UP WITH A 1-PENNY PROFIT
MARGIN LIKE MOST SUPERMARKETS.
BROWN MAKES THAT EXTRA 2.5 CENTS
BY CATERING CAREFULLY TO LOCAL
TASTES.
>> I THINK THIS IS AN
INTERESTING EXAMPLE OF OUR
BUSINESS MODEL -- UNDERSTAND OUR
CUSTOMERS COME FROM THE SOUTH,
THEY LIKE SWEET POTATOES, FIGURE
OUT THE RIGHT ITEMS, IT'S LIKE
HALF THE BAKERY BUSINESS IN THIS
STORE.
>> Reporter: RELIGIOUSLY
SANCTIONED MEATS FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD'S MUSLIMS.
>> THIS IS HALAL MEAT, IT'S A
COMPLETELY SEPARATELY MEAT ROOM.
>> Reporter: IMPROVED
INGREDIENTS.
>> FROFRUFRU FLOUR.
>> Reporter: IF YOU STOCK IT,
THEY WILL COME.
ANOTHER MOTIVATION HERE AS
WELL -- HEALTH VIA NUTRITION.
>> IF THEY DON'T COME HERE, THEY
DON'T BENEFIT FROM YOUR FRESH
FOODS.
>> Reporter: LIKE PRODUCE,
BOUNTIFUL, RARELY IF EVER FOUND
IN THE DESERT.
SINCE LOWER OBESITY AND LESS
DIABETES WITH THE GOALS,
SEAFOOD, LESS FRIED CHICKEN, AND
THINLY SLICED BEEF BECAUSE IT
FILLS THE PLATE, CUT THE
CALORIES AND COST.
>> WE'RE GOINTOG STRETCH $10.
>> Reporter: AN ON-SITE
NUTRITION DEMONSTRATES HOW TO
EAT WELL CHEAPLY.
>> WE'RE IN LUCK TODAY.
CABBAGE IS 69 CENTS A POUND.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING YOU CAN
CHOOSE A NICE CABBAGE, PROBABLY
ABOUT 2 POUNDS OR MORE, AND YOU
WILL BE ABLE TO STRETCH A DOLLAR
THAT WAY.
THE BANANAS ARE 59 CENTS A
POUND.
>> Reporter: HER LESSONS ARE
UP AGAINST A HOST OF
DISTRACTIONS.
>> EMPLOYMENT ISSUES, JUST NOT
HAVING ENOUGH MONEY TO BUY FOOD,
DEALING WITH GRANDCHILDREN,
TAKING CARE OF THEM.
THEY'RE JUST DEALING WITH A LOT
OF OTHER ISSUES AND THEY JUST
FEEL LIKE NUTRITION IS NOT AT
THE TOP OF THE LIST.
>> Reporter: BUT THE STORE IS
TRYING TO PUT IT THERE.
>> HOW LONG HAVE YOU HAD IT?
THREE DAYS.
>> Reporter: THERE'S WALK-IN
CLINIC WHERE THE UNINSURED CAN
SEE A NURSE PRACTITIONER FOR
$20 AND WITH A SHORT WAIT CAN
ACCESS AN ONSITE PHARMACY.
>> ONE OTHER PERSON IN YOUR
HOUSEHOLD IS CLAIMED BY YOU?
>> YES, MY PHAT SNORE IN-STORE
SOCIAL WORKER HELPS THE PUBLIC
APPLY FOR PUBLIC BENEFITS.
FREE CHECK CASHING INSTEAD OF
THE HIGH ALTERNATIVES AND A
LOW-COST BILL PAYMENT SERVICE.
WHAT'S MOST IMPORTANT TO THE
COMMUNITY SAYS WARD LEADER MARK
GREEN ARE THE 300 NEW JOBS HERE.
>> THIS LOCATION HAS PROVIDED
FU-TILLME EMPLOYMENT FOR A LOT
OF GUYS.
IT CHANGES YOUR LIFE BECAUSE NOW
YOU HAVE GAINFUL EMPLOYMENT.
YOU CAN PROVIDE FOR YOUR FAMILY,
YOU CAN TAKE CARE OF YOUR
CHILDREN, YOU CAN SUPPORT YOUR
WIFE, YOU CAN PAY YOUR RENT, YOU
DON'T HAVE TO SELL DRUGS, YOU
DON'T HAVE TO BE ON THE CORNERS
ANYMORE.
>> THIS WAS MY FIRST SHOT, MY
FIRST JOB EVER.
I NEVER HAD A JOB BEFORE.
>> Reporter: 41-YEAR-OLD
ANTHONY JACKSON SPENT HALF HIS
LIFE IN JAIL.
>> I HAVE BEEN INCARCERATED FOR
NORMS CRIMES -- BROG POSSESSION,
FIREARMS VIOLATION, I HAD A
LENGTHY CRIMINAL BACKGROUND
PAST.
I COULDN'T GET A JOB ANYWHERE.
I TRIED TO GET A JOB AT FAST
FOOD RESTAURANTS, NOBODY CALLED
BACK.
>> Reporter: BROWN DID.
SIX YEARS LATER JACKSON IS A
FROZEN FOODS MANAGER MAKING OVER
$50,000 A YEAR.
>> I'M NOT THE SAME GUY.
I'M OFF OF PAROLE AND PROBATION.
ALL I DO IS WORK.
I'M TRYING TO CLIMB THE LADDER
OF SUCCESS.
>> Reporter: REALLY?
SUCCESS WHEN SO MANY JOBS ARE
LOW WAGE?
THIS IS A STEPPING STONE.
>> THIS IS NOT GOING TO SOLVE
ALL THE PROBLS.EM
IT'S ENTRY LEVEL, BUT IT'S NOT
THE TOTAL ANSWER.
>> Reporter: NOR IS IT THE
TOTAL ANSWER WHEN IT COMES THE
NUTRITION, IN FACT, ACCORDING TO
A STUDY PUBLISHED LAST YEAR IN
HEALTH AFFAIRS, THE OPENING OF A
SUPERMARKET IN ANOTHER
PHILADELPHIA FOOD DESERT DID NOT
LEAD TO CHANGES FINRUIT AND
VEGETABLE INTAKE OR LOWER BODY
MASS INDEX, BUT IT WASN'T HIS
STORE, AND BROWN IS UNDETERRED.
>> THE CUSTOMERS IN THIS AREA
HAD NO WAY TO BUY ANY PRODUCE AT
ALL BEFORE, AND NOW WE SELL THE
SAME AMOUNT OF PRODUCE WE SELL
IN A SUBURBAN STORE.
SO I WOULD HAVE TO BELIEVE THAT
A DIET HAS CHANGED BECAUSE
THEY'RE NOT RICH PEOPLE AND IF
THEY ALLOCATED THEIR RESOURCES
MORE TOWARDS FRESH FRUITS AND
VEGETABLES, I WOULD THINK THEIR
DIET CHANGED.
>> Reporter: AND IN AMERICA'S
FOOD DESERT, SAYS BROWN, THERE E
ARE A LOT OF NOT-RICH PEOPLE
GOING UNSERVED.
>> I THINK WE SHOULD HAVE ABOUT
1,000 SUPERMARKETS.
THERE IS 25 MILLION PEOPLE THAT
LIVE WITHOUT A GROCERY STORE
TODAY, THEY DON'T HAVE A
PRACTICAL MNS TEAO GET TO ONE.
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, BROWN
ISN'T THE ONLY RETAIL TORE SEE
DOESN'T OPPORTUNITY IN THE
DESERT.
WHOLE FOODS IS EXPANDING INTO
INNER CITY DETROIT AND CHICAGO,
WELL WEGMAN PLANS TO OPEN NEXT
DOOR BROOKLYN HOUSING PROJECT.
THE PROBLEM IS THE PROFIT FOOD
DESERT SUPERMARKET CAN TURN OUT
TO BE A MIRAGE.
BALTIMORE'S APPLES AND ORANGES
FRESH MARKET WENT BUST IN JUST
TWO YEARS.
>> A LOT OF TIMES IT'S
INEXPERIENCED ENTREPRENEURS SO
THEY'RE NOT ACCUSTOMED TO
RUNNING A FOOD BUSINESS, THEY'RE
JUST TRYING TO DO SOMETHING
GOOD.
THE OTHER THING YOU CAN'T TELL
PEOPLE WHAT TO EAT AND YOU CAN'T
OPEN UP AND SELL ALL HEALTHY
FOOD BECAUSE VERY FEW PEOPLE EAT
LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: YOU HAVE TO HAVE
SOME SWEET POTATO PIE.
>> YOU'RE RIGHT.
>> Reporter: IN THE END, GIVE
THE COMMUNITY HAT IT NEEDS,
WHETHER IT BE FOOD OR A JOB.
>> I'M PROUD OF YOU.
>> Reporter: THIS IS ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN,
REPORTING FOR THE PBS
"NewsHour" FROM THE
PHILADELPHIA FOOD DESERT WHERE A
SUPERMARKET CHAIN IS MAKING AT
LEAST PART OF IT BLOOM.
>> Ifill: NEW YORK CITY IS
FACING THE LARGEST OUTBREAK OF
LEGIONNAIRES' DISEASE IN ITS
HISTORY.
THE AIRBORNE RESPIRATORY DISEASE
HAS KILLED 10 PEOPLE SINCE EARLY
JULY, WITH 100 CASES REPORTED.
SO FAR, IT'S BEEN LIMITED TO THE
CITY'S SOUTH BRONX NEIGHBORHOOD.
HARI SREENIVASAN PICKS UP THE
STORY FROM OUR NEW YORK CITY
STUDIOS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DISEASE IS
OFTEN CHARACTERIZED AS A SEVERE
FORM OF PNEUMONIA.
AND IT APPEARS THAT WATER
COOLING TOWERS HAVE BEEN A
BREEDING GROUND FOR THE BACTERIA
THAT CAUSES IT.
LEGIONNAIRES IS RARELY THE FOCUS
OF MUCH PUBLIC ATTENTION BUT
THERE WERE MORE 4,500 CASES IN
THE U.S. IN 2013.
LET'S GETE
ITSELF, THIS OUTBREAK AND THE
RISKS TO PEOPLE.
DOCTOR ANNE SCHUCHAT IS THE
DIRECTOR OF C.D.C.'s NATIONAL
CENTER FOR IMMUNIZATION AND
RESPIRATORY DISEASES AND SHE
JOINS ME FROM ATLANTA.
SO TELL ME, FIRST OF ALL, WHAT
DOES THIS DO TO THE BODY?
>> LEGIONNAIRE'S DISEASE IS A
FORM OF PNEUMONIA.
IT CAN CAUSE FEVER, COUGH,
DIFFICULTY BREATHING AND OTHER
COMPLICATIONS.
IT'S ONE OF THE MORE SEVERE
PNEUMONIAS, AND WE THINK BETWEEN
5% AND 30% OF PEOPLE WHO DEVELOP
LEGIONNAIRE'S DISEASE CAN HAVE
IN-- INFECTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW WIDESPREAD
IS IT?
THAT NUMBER IS PROBABLY NOT
SOMETHING PEOPLE ARE FAMILIAR
WITH.
>> WE THINK THERE IS
UNDERREPORTING.
WE THINK THERE ARE BETWEEN 8,000
AND 18,000 CASES OF
LEGIONNAIRE'S DISEASE EACH YEAR
IN THE UNITED STATES.
MANY DON'T GET DIAGNOSED
SPECIFICALLY.
THEY'RE JUST TREATED AS
PNEUMONIA, AND EVEN THOSE THAT
DO GET DIAGNOSED MAY OR MAY NOT
GET REPORTED TO THE PUBLIC
HEALTH AUTHORITIES.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW IS IT
SPREAD?
IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE, WE HAVE
BEEN FOCUSING ON COOLING TOWERS,
BUT WHAT'S THE MOST LIKELY MODES
OF TRANSMISSION?
>> WELL, IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
FOR PEOPLE TO KNOW THAT
LEGIONNAIRE'S DISEASE IS NOT
SPREAD PERSON-TO-PERSON.
MANY KINDS OF PNEUMONIA ARE
CAUSE BID BACTERIA THAT ARE
SPREAD PERSON-TO-PERSON, BUT
LEGIONNAIRE'S DISEASE IS CAUSED
BY INHALING MIST OR VAPORS THAT
HAVE THE BACTERIA IN THEM.
THE LEGIONELLA BACTERIA THAT
CAUSES THIS PNEUMONIA IS FOUND
IN THE ENVIRONMENT.
IT CAN BE FOUND IN FRESHWATER,
BUT IT CAN ALSO BE FOUND IN
WATER IN THE BUILT-IN
ENVIRONMENT, AND WHEN THE
BACTERIA GROWS TO HIGH LEVELS
AND IS BLOWN AROUND THROUGH MIST
OR AEROSOLIZATION, PEOPLE CAN
BREATHE IT IN.
MOST PEOPLE WHO COME IN CONTACT
WITH THIS BACTERIA DON'T GET
SICK, BUT THE DISEASE IS
PARTICULARLY A PROBLEM IN PEOPLE
WHO ARE SMOKERS, PEOPLE WHO HAVE
CHRONIC LUNG DISEASE, PEOPLE WHO
ARE ELDERLY, OR PEOPLE WHO HAVE
OTHER MEDICAL CONDITIONS THAT
WEAKEN THEIR IMMUNE SYSTEM.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THE COOLING
TOWERS IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE,
IS IT NORMAL TO SEE A CLUSTER OF
BUILDINGS THIS CLOSE TOGETHER OR
IN A PARTICULAR NEIGHBORHOOD?
OR DOES IT HAPPEN IN DIFFERENT
PARTS OF THE CITY OR DIFFERENT
PARTS OF AN AREA?
>> YOU KNOW, COOLING TOWERS ARE
LINKED TO ABOUT 40% OF THE
OUTBREAKS THAT WE INVESTIGATE,
AND THEY'RE ASSOCIATED WITH
ABOUT 60% OF THE CASES IN ALL
THE OUTBREAKS WE INVESTIGATE, SO
COOLING TOWER OUTBREAKS TEND TO
BE BIGGER THAN THE OUTBREAKS
FROM POTABLE WATER SYSTEMS IN
BUILDINGS.
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO SAY THAT
JUST FINDING THE LEGIONELLA BACK
TIER -- BACTERIA IN THE
ENVIRONMENT DOESN'T NECESSARILY
MEAN THAT'S THE PLACE THE
INFECTION IS COMING FROM.
YOU KNOW, THE HEALTH DEPARTMENTS
IN THE AREA ARE DOING EXPWENSIVE
INVESTIGATIONS TO UNDERSTAND THE
EXPOSURERS THAT ARE CONTRIBUTING
TO DISEASE.
WHAT IS OFTEN DONE IS
EPIDEMIOLOGIC INVESTIGATION AND
THEN ALSO A LABORATORY STUDY TO
DO TYPING OR FINGERPRINTING OF
THE BACTERIA THAT ARE IDENTIFIED
IN PATIENTS FROM CLINICAL
SPECIMENS AND THEN ALSO IN WATER
SAMPLES THAT ARE TESTED TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE THE ACTUAL
SOURCE IS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO NOT UNTIL
THE TESTS WILL WE FIGURE OUT
WHETHER THIS PARTICULAR OUTBREAK
HAS BEEN CAUSED BY THOSE TOWERS
OR THE BACTERIA FOUND ELSEWHERE
IN THE ENVIRONMENT, AS YOU
DESCRIBED?
>> WELL, I THINK THE
INVESTIGATION, SO FAR, AS I
UNDERSTAND IT, IS REALLY
POINTING TOWARDS THE COOLING
TOWERS, BUT IT'S AN ONGOING
INVESTIGATION, AND, SO, I KNOW
THAT THERE'S BEEN EXTENSIVE
EVALUATION AND REMEDIATION OR
CORRECTION OF THE CONCERN THAT
HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED, BUT IT'S
ONGOING.
SO I THINK WE NEED TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE INFORMATION IS ALL
PULLED TOGETHER.
THESE LAB TESTS TURN OUT TO BE
REALLY IMPORTANT, AND THEY'LL
TAKE A BIT OF TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: DR. ANNE
SCHUCHAT FROM THE C.D.C.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: ONE LAST ZINGER, ONE
LAST LAUGH, ONE LAST BOW.
JON STEWART TAKES HIS LEAVE OF
"THE DAILY SHOW" TONIGHT.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR LOOK.
>> WHOSE TEAM ARE WE ON IN THE
MIDDLE EAST?
>> Brown: JON STEWART HAS BEEN
CALLED THE NATION'S SATIRIST IN
CHIEF, AND RECENTLY HE WENT AT
IT, ONCE AGAIN, WITH THE
COMMANDER IN CHIEF.
>> BECAUSE I KNOW-- SO WE'RE
FIGHTING WITH IRAQIS TO DEFEAT
ISIS, ALONG WITH IRAN, BUT IN
YEMEN, WE'RE FIGHTING IRAN WITH
IRAQIS AND SAUDIS.
>> THAT'S NOT QUITE RIGHT, BUT
THAT'S OKAY.
>> WHO ARE WE BOMBING?
>> Brown: IT WAS PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S SEVENTH APPEARANCE ON
STEWART'S "DAILY SHOW," AND HIS
LAST.
>> I'M ISSUING A NEW EXECUTIVE
ORDER THAT JON STEWART CANNOT
LEAVE THE SHOW. (APPLAUSE)
>> Brown: BUT STEWART IS
LEAVING, AFTER 16 YEARS OF A
KIND OF FAUX NEW
ERIC DEGGANS IS TV CRITIC FOR
NPR.
>> JON STEWART'S ULTIMATE ENEMY
IS HYPOCRISY AND PHONINESS.
>> SENATOR REID, HOW DID YOU NOT
READ THIS BILL?
>> OTHER LATE NIGHT SHOWS ARE
FOCUSED ON ENTERTAINMENT.
THE DAILY SHOW HAS BEEN MORE
ABOUT THE NEWS.
IT'S BEEN MORE ABOUT TAKING
THINGS THAT HAVE SEEMED SO
SERIOUS, WHILE ALSO MAKING FUN
OF THEM, EXPOSING TRUTHS THAT
ARE HARD TO GET AT ANY OTHER
WAY.
>> Brown: IN A CONVERSATION LAST
YEAR, AS HE RELEASED
"ROSEWATER," HIS FIRST FEATURE
FILM, STEWART TOLD ME HOW HE
SEES HIS ROLE.
>> THE CONVERSATION IS ABOUT
SPACE BETWEEN THE PUBLIC FACE OF
OUR LEADERS, VERSUS THE PRIVATE
STRATEGIES THAT PRODUCE THAT
FACE, THE FAC ADE THAT'S PLACED
OVER IT, THE CONVERSATION IS
ABOUT CORRUPTION, WHETHER ITR WR
IT COMES TO MEDIA.
SATIRE COMES FROM A PLACE OF
URGING, IT COMES FROM A PLACE OF
AN IDEAL.
THE HUMOR ONLY WORKS AS A
COUNTERPOINT TO SEEING SOMETHING
THAT YOU FEEL IS NOT AT THE
LEVEL WHERE YOU KNOW IT COULD
BE, OF OPPORTUNITY SQUANDERED.
>> Brown: STEWART WOULD HONE
THAT APPROACH OVER THE YEARS,
SOMETIMES ACTING GOOFY...
>> Brown: SOMETIMES ANGRY.
>> Brown: ONE CONSTANT TARGET:
THE MEDIA, PARTICULARLY WHAT HE
SAW AS THE BLOVIATING OF CABLE
NEWS.
STEWART AND HIS WRITERS WOULD
FIND THE MOMENT, AND ROLL THE
VIDEO.
THE MANTRA OF THE UNFARMED
BLACK TEENAGER SHOT BY A WHITE
COP, YOU KNOW, THAT DESCRIPTION
IN AND OF ITSELF ACTUALLY COLORS
THE WAY IN WHICH WE LOOK AT THIS
STORY.
>> YES!
DESCRIBING THE ACTUAL FACTS OF
THE CASE.
>> Brown: AN EARLY FLASHPOINT
CAME IN 2004 WHEN HE LAMBASTED
CNN'S "CROSSFIRE," SAYING THE
PARTISAN SHOUTING WAS "HURTING
AMERICA."
>> STOP, STOP HURTING AMERICA
YOU'RE DOING THEATER WHEN YOU
SHOULD BE DOING DEBATE.
IT'S NOT HONEST.
>> Brown: ANOTHER REGULAR
TARGET: POLITICIANS.
AGAIN, CAPTURED IN THEIR OWN
WORDS.
>> I'VE BEEN COLORING MY HAIR
FOR YEARS.
>> Brown: BUT POLITICIANS ON
BOTH SIDES OF THE AISLE SOUGHT
OUT THE DAILY SHOW.
SOME CONSERVATIVES MIGHT RAIL
AGAINST WHAT THEY SEE AS
STEWART'S LIBERAL BENT, BUT,
CANDIDATE MIKE HUCKABEE HAVE
BEEN REGULARS.
HUCKABEE JOINED STEWART NINE
TIMES.
NEW YORK DEMOCRATIC SENATOR
KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, INTERVIEWED
BY STEWART ON FIVE OCCASIONS,
TOLD US HOW HE INFLUENCED
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND THEIR
STAFFS.
>> IF HE HAS A GREAT EPISODE
ABOUT SOMETHING WE HAVE BEEN
WOING RKON, THEN WE RUSH TO
THAT'S WHAT HE CERTAINLY DID
WITH THE 9/11 HEALTH BILL.
THAT'S WHAT SOMETHING THAT WAS
VERY LANGUISHING-- LANGUISHING
THE HOUSE FOR SEVEN YEARS
WITHOUT ANY MOVEMENT, IT HAD
GONE NOWHERE IN THE SENATE.
HE FRAMED THE ISSUE SO
EFFECTIVELY THAT THERE WASN'T A
MEMBER OF CONGRESS WHO CAN STAND
UP AGAINST HIM PARTICULARLY IN
THE SENATE.
WHEN WE PASSED THAT BILL, IT WAS
UNANIMOUS.
AND THERE IS SO FEW PEOPLE YOU
CAN SAY THAT ABOUT WHO CAN SHIFT
NATIONAL CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: ANOTHER AREA OF
INFLUENCE: MEMBERS OF HIS
COMEDIC TEAM, INCLUDING STEVE
CARELL, STEPHEN COLBERT AND JOHN
OLIVER, WHO'VE GONE ON TO MAKE
THEIR OWN MARKS.
>> Brown: SAMANTHA BEE SERVED AS
THE DAILY SHOW'S LONGEST-SERVING
REGULAR CORRESPONDENT BEFORE
LEAVING EARLIER THIS YEAR.
>> JON GAVE ME THE FREEDOM TO
EXPLORE AREAS OF CONCE THARNT I
FELT PASSIONATELY ABOUT.
AND THAT WAS VERY, VERY
INVIGORATING.
JON WAS OUR BENEVOLENT OVERLORD.
WORKING ON THE DAILY SHOW
CHANGED MY LIFE PROFOUNDLY.
TYPICALLY IF HE'S PUSHING US IN
A DIRECTION, HE'S PUSHING US IN
THE DIRECTION OF ELEVATING A
JOKE WHICH IS GREAT AND
>> Brown: CURRENT DAILY SHOW
CORRESPONDENT AND STAND UP COMIC
AL MADRIGAL SHARED THIS ANECDOTE
WITH US.
>> AT ONE POINT, DURING A DAILY
SHOW FIELDPIECE, I STARTED
SPINNING, LIKE WONDER WOMAN
ALMOST, IN BETWEEN CITIES.
AND FOR NO REASON, WHATSOEVER.
AND I REMEMBER HIM JUST LAUGHING
OUT LOUD IN THE SCREENING, AND
GOING, THAT DOESN'T MAKE ANY
SENSE, I LOVE IT, GO FOR IT.
>> Brown: NOT EVERYTHING WAS
ROSY, IT SEEMS: FORMER DAILY
SHOW CORRESPONDENT WYATT CENAC
RECENTLYLAIM CED THAT STEWART
BLEW UP AT HIM FOR QUESTIONING
THE RACIAL OVERTONES OF A SKIT.
CENAC WAS THE ONLY BLACK WRITER
ON THE PROGRAM AT THE TIME.
ANOTHER RECENT REPORT, BY
"POLITICO," THAT STEWART MET
WITH THE PRESIDENT TWICE AT THE
WHITE HOUSE, SHOWS THE STATURE
HE ATTAINED BEYOND THE
TELEVISION SCREEN.
YEARS INTO THE FAUX-NEWS ERA,
THERE'S ALSO A QUESTION FOR THE
MEDIA INDUSTRY-- ABOUT YOUNG
PEOPLE WHO CAME TO RELY ON THE
DAILY SHOW FOR THEIR NEWS:
>> I DO THINK WE ARE TRAINING
NATION OF INFORMATION CONSUMERS
TO EXPECT THAT REALLY EFFECTIVE
REPORTING ALSO HAS TO BE REALLY
ENTERTAINING AND FUN TO CONSUME
AS COOL AS IT IS TO SEE WHAT JON
STEWART HAS PUT TOGETHER, SOME
NEWS STORIES ARE NOT
ENTERTAINING, BUT PEOPLE STILL
NEED TO KNOW THE INFORMATION AND
NEED TO ACCESS IT TO BE BETTER
CITIZENS.
>> Brown: IN THE MEANTIME, SOME
THINGS DON'TCHAN GE: AS HE
DEPARTS, JON STEWART IS HAVING
GREAT FUN WITH THE 2016
PRESIDENTIAL RACE.
JUST AS HE DID WHEN HE SPOKE TO
US AT THE 2000 DEMOCRATIC
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
>> I THINK THERE IS ALWAYS COMIC
FODDER IN BAD THEATER,
ESPECIALLY BAD THEATER THAT HAS
A MANDATE TO MATTER AND NOT BE
SUPERFICIAL.
I DON'T THINK WE'RE MAKING FUN
OF INDIVIDUALS, WE'RE MAKING FUN
OF A PROCESS MORE THAN ANYTHING
ELSE.
>> Brown: STEWART HASN'T SAID
WHAT'S NEXT FOR HIM.
PERHAPS, PICKING UP ON ONE OF
THE DAILY SHOW'S SIGNATURE
PIECES: HIS OWN PERSONAL "MOMENT
OF ZEN."
>> I'M NOT I DOING!
I'M JUST LEAVING THE SHOW!
FOR THE PBSEWSH NOUR, I'M
JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Ifill: CHECK ONLINE FOR A
LIST OF THE TIMES JON STEWART,
OR HIS COLLEAGUES, HAVE
INFLUENCED POLICY IN WASHINGTON.
>> Ifill: NEXT WE CONTINUE OUR
SERIES, "BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR."
MICHAEL LEWIS IS A FORMER WALL
STREET BOND SALESMAN TURNED
WRITER.
HIS BOOK "LIAR'S POKER"
CHRONICLED THE 1980s RISE OF
SOLOMON BROTHERS, THE INVESTMENT
BANK WHERE HE WORKED.
MORE RECENTLY HE HAS WRITTEN
ABOUT SILICON VALLEY AND HIGH
SPEED TRADING.
TONIGHT, HE SHARES A PERSPECTIVE
ON HIS JOURNEY FROM WORKING ON
WALL STREET TO BECOMING ONE OF
ITS BIGGEST CRITICS.
>> I FIND IT OUTRAGEOUS THAT
PEOPLE WHO RUN BIG COMPANIES
THINK IT'S OKAY TO PAY
THEMSELVES TENS OF MIIONSLL OF
DOLLARS.
THEY SHOULD BE THINKING INSTEAD
I HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO SET AN
EXAMPLE FOR THE COMPANY. i
IT WAS AN ACCIDENT I GOT A JOB
ON WALL STREET.
ONCE I GOT IT AND THEY STARTED
PAYING ME HUGE SUMS OF MONEY TO
GIVE FINANCIAL ADVICE WHEN I
REALLY SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN DOING
IT, IT WAS BRIEFLY INTOXICATING
TO THINK THAT I HAD VALUE.
ONCE I SORT OF FIGURED OUT HOW
TO WORK IT, I LOST INTEREST IN
IT, AND BUILT ON THE SIDE A
CAREER AS A WRITER.
IF YOU INSIST ON TRULY
UNDERSTANDING SOMETHING BEFORE
YOU WRITE ABOUT IT, YOU CAN
EXPLAIN IT.
I DO HAVE AN ADVANTAGE IN THAT I
WORKED IN THE PLACE LONG ENOUGH
AND HAD TO GRAPPLE WITH FAIRLY
COMPLICATED FINANCIAL CONCEPTS
AND I KNOW HOW MUCH B.S. THERE
IS AND HOW OFTEN PEOPLE IN THE
FINANCIAL WORLD KIND OF THINK
THEY UNDERSTAND SOMETHING WHEN
THEY DON'T, SO I'M NOT SHY ABOUT
PUSHING PEOPLE TILL I HAVE A
PROPER EXPLANATION.
IN WASHINGTON, SILICON VALLEY,
WALL STREET, THERE IS A
KNOWINGNESS ABOUT PEOPLE.
THEY DON'T WANT TO SEEM LIKE
THEY DON'T KNOW.
THEY THINK THEY WILL SEEM
STUPID, AND THAT LEADS TO
GREATER STUPIDITY.
THE MORAL PROBLEM SUCH AS IT IS
ON WALL STREET IS NOT THAT
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING TO DO BAD
THINGS.
THEY WOULD RATHER DO GOOD
BUT THEY WANT TO MAKE MONEY.
WE LIVE IN A SOCIETY IN WHICH
THE ELITES HAVE MAYBE MORE POWER
THAN THEY'VE EVER HAD.
A GREATER SHARE OF THE WEALTH
THAN THEY HAD IN A VERY LONG
TIME.
BUT IT'S NOT CLEAR THEY FEEL
MUCH IN THE WAY OF OBLIGATION TO
SOCIETY.
THERE'S A NATURAL TENDENCY FOR
PEOPLE TO TELL THE STORY OF
THEIR LIVES, OF THEIR SUCCESS,
FORGETTING ALL THE STENT THAT
WAS INVOLVED, ALL THE HELP THEY
GOT, ALL THE GRATITUDE THEY
SHOULD FEEL.
MY NAME IS MICHAEL LEWIS AND
THIS IS MY BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR
TAKEN TO THE THINGS THAT
INTEREST ME.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN FIND ALL OF
OUR BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR TAKES-
- ON POETRY, EDUCATION, THE ARTS
MR FACEBOOK PAGE.
NOW TO OUR NEWSHOUR SHARES,
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE,
WE THOUGHT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST
TO YOU, TOO.
CANDIDATE' DEBATES DON'T JUST
HAPPEN.
THE MODERATORS, THE PRODUCERS
AND THE CANDIDATES' THEMSELVES
DEVOTE A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
TIME TO PREP WORK.
SO WHAT HAVE THE TONIGHT'S
CANDIDATES BEEN UP TO?
THE FOLKS AT I.J. REVIEW TOOK A
LIGHT HEARTED PEEK.
>> MARCO RUBIO.
BENJAMIN S. CARSON.
LINDSEY GRAHAM.
SCOTT WALKER.
CARLY FIORINA.
JEB BUSH.
GEORGE PATAKI.
MIKE HUCKABEE.
BEFORE A DEBATE, I SAY IS A
LITTLE SILENT PRAYER AND DRINK A
DIET LEMON SNAPPLE ICED TEA.
>> I LIKE TO BE MENTALLY FOCUSED
BUT RELAXED, SO I PLAY
SOLITAIRE.
>> I TAKE MY NEW PHONE, I LISTEN
TO MOWTOWN TO MELLOW ME OUT.
>> I GO RUN BEFORE THE DEBATE.
A GREAT WAY TO RELAX.
YOU CAN'T TAKE PHONE CALLS, NOT
READING E-MAILS, NOT LOOKING
ONLINE, YOU'RE JUST OUT RUNNING
AND IT CLEARS YOUR MIND.
>> BEFORE THE DEBATE I NORMALLY
CALL MY MOM TO GET ADVICE.
I CAN'T SAY THAT ON TELEVISION,
MOM!
>> I GET A VEOID OF MY TRUSTED
POLITICAL ADVISORS.
>> WHAT IS MEGAN GOING TO ASK
TODAY?
>> LET ME CHECK ON THAT.
TO TAKE THESE HUNDREDS OF
PIECES OF PAPER BECAUSE THEY
HAVE ALL THE ADVICE PEOPLE HAVE
GIVE MEN ABOUT WHAT TO SAY
DURING THE DEBATE AND LIGHT THEM
ON FIRE.
I'M GOING TO BE ME.
SO WHATEVER COMES OUT, IT'S ME.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: LAST WEEK A GROUP OF
HIGH PROFILE SCIENTISTS WARNED
THE WORLD OF THE DANGERS OF
AUTONOMOUS WEAPONS-- MILITARY
MACHINES CAPABLE OF FIRING
WITHOUT HUMAN INTERVENTION.
BUT HOW CLOSE ARE WE TO FULLY
AUTOMATED KILLER ROBOTS?
WE TALKED TO SEVERAL EXPERTS WHO
IDENTIFY WEAPONS BEING USED
TODAY THAT COULD BE ENGAGED
WITHOUT HUMANS, SOME YOU'VE
PROBABLY HEARD OF.
SEE THE LIST, ON OUR HOME PAGE,
THAT'S pbs.org/newshour.
AN EDITOR'S NOTE BEFORE WE GO:
ON TUESDAY, I INCORRECTLY STATED
THAT BEN CARSON IS THE ONLY
PHYSICIAN IN THE PRESIDENTIAL
RACE.
IN FACT, SENATOR RAND PAUL IS AN
OPTHALMOLOGIST.
WE REGRET THE OVERSIGHT.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.